Hi all! I thought it was time I provided an update on my work so far, so the community has an understanding of what I've been doing and what I've learned, along with what I am currently working on and my plans for the future.
Over the past month, I have been working on compiling the results of the dispute resolution survey that was offered in April 2012, and preparing these results for the community. 
The purpose of this survey was to get Wikipedians, in their own words, to explain how they felt about dispute resolution on the English Wikipedia and their experiences with it. Demographic information and feedback on the processes was gathered, as well as first-hand accounts of their experiences. The respondents detailed processes that they think are effective, but also highlighted issues that they have experienced that made things difficult.
The survey was offered to members of the community based on their activity within dispute resolution - editors who had more than ten edits to a range of dispute resolution forums in the period of February 2010 – February 2012, that were not indefinitely blocked at the time, were eligible. 1952 users were eligible to take the survey, and it was offered to the top 1060 active editors (1100 originally, however 40 were blocked). The survey received 238 valid responses (a response rate of just over 22%, and the results were compared with the m:Editor Survey 2011.
The full survey results are collated, however I am still in the process of writing up detailed findings. Some highlights of the report include:
From the results, there are some positives and negatives. When disputes are attended to by experienced volunteers with co-operative fellow editors, respondents were generally satisfied with their experience - but complex, time consuming processes, inexperienced or insufficient volunteers or uncooperative fellow editors make the experience an unpleasant one. 70% of respondents have volunteered with dispute resolution at some point, however only 40% did so in the month of March 2012 - many of these to talk pages only, and this may be due the complexity of the processes or lack of understanding on how to resolve disputes.
Based on the results of the survey, my recommendations to the community are to:
Following up the results of this survey, an analysis of existing dispute resolution techniques will be undertaken to measure the effectiveness of the processes. A more detailed methodology can be found here, however the basic metrics will be sought after:
As always, if you have any questions feel free to ask me via email or my talk page. Regards, Steven Zhang Get involved in DR! 07:42, 2 July 2012 (UTC)Reply[reply]
